---
title: 'biblatex'
date: 2023-01-04
permalink: /posts/2023/01/blog-post-04/
tags:
  - LaTeX
---

For managing a bibliography for my papers, for a long time I have been using the `natbib` package with `bibtex` to compile.
```
\usepackage[authoryear,round]{natbib}
\usepackage{doi}

\bibliographystyle{plainnat}
\bibliography{<filename>}
```
Here the `authoryear` option allows one to cite papers in the author-year style, and the `round` option changes the brackets to parentheses, which is standard in economics. I like to use the `doi` package so that the DOI (Digital Object Identifier) becomes a hyperlink, which I think is useful for readers to quickly find references online. The `plainnat` bibliography style prints the reference list in a style similar to typical economics journals.

However, I have been slightly dissatisfied with `plainnat.bst` because it tends to contain too much information. For instance, I may want to change the given names to initials but that is not possible unless I use other `.bst` files. It is not a wise use of time to look for the ideal `.bst` file or try to customize one myself.

On a separate note, I have been using the `biblatex` package (without understanding it) to create my [CV](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LwWnbQ-aqI-jE9X8EFXQ4eJqTmIDm1mk/view). `biblatex` is convenient because the user can easily customize the reference list, for instance listing research articles, book chapters, conference proceedings, working papers, etc. in different sections (with potentially the same or different numbering and/or reverse chronologically).

Until recently it didn't occur to me to use `biblatex` to manage bibliographies in my own papers, but after investing a bit of time I was able to do it to my satisfaction. Here is an example.
````
\usepackage[style=authoryear-comp, % for author-year compact format
sorting=nyt, % sort by name, year, title
dashed=false, % don't use dash for repeated author
maxcitenames=2, % maximum names to cite
uniquelist=false,
uniquename=init,
giveninits=true, % first name initials
natbib, % use natbib commands
date=year % year only
]{biblatex}
\addbibresource{<filename>.bib}

\DeclareFieldFormat{pages}{#1} % suppress pp.
\renewbibmacro{in:}{\ifentrytype{article}{}{\printtext{\bibstring{in}\intitlepunct}}} % delete In:
  
\printbibliography
````
The option `giveninits=true` abbreviates given names to initials, which I couldn't do with `plainnat.bst`.


