---
title: 'Nonexistence of Rational Bubbles in Miao and Wang (2018)'
date: 2024-07-23
permalink: /posts/2024/07/blog-post-23/
---

[Jianjun Miao](https://people.bu.edu/miaoj/) of Boston University and [Pengfei Wang](https://english.phbs.pku.edu.cn/content-627-118-1.html) of Peking University published a paper titled "[Asset Bubbles and Credit Constraints](https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20160782)" at *American Economic Review* in 2018. In their abstract, they state that they "provide a theory of rational stock price
bubbles". For those who are not familiar with the economic theory of bubbles, "rational bubble" means that the asset price (denoted by \\(P\\)) exceeds its fundamental value (denoted by \\(V\\)) defined by the present value of dividends, so \\(P>V\\), in a model in which agents are rational.

Most papers in the rational bubble literature assumes that the asset pays no dividends, because there are known difficulties with positive dividends. (I can talk about this more but it is technical, so I refer the reader to my [JME review article](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmateco.2024.102944) with [Tomohiro Hirano](https://sites.google.com/site/tomohih/).) Miao and Wang's paper is ambitious because they claim to attach a rational bubble to a dividend-paying asset. For instance, in their literature review, they state

>Some studies (e.g., Scheinkman and Weiss 1986; Kocherlakota 1992, 2008; Santos
and Woodford 1997; Hellwig and Lorenzoni 2009) have found that infinite-horizon
models of endowment economies with borrowing constraints can generate rational
bubbles. Unlike this literature, our paper analyzes a production economy with stock price bubbles attached to productive firms.

Here the cited papers are all rational bubble models. Subsequent papers by the authors also advertise Miao and Wang (2018) as a rational bubble model. For example, Footnote 4 of [Dong, Miao, and Wang (2020)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.red.2020.06.003) states

>Introducing dividends or rents will complicate our analysis without changing our key insights. See Miao and Wang (2018) and Miao, Wang, and Xu (2015) for models of rational bubbles attached to assets with dividends or rents.

In a recent working paper by Tomohiro and I titled "[Rational Bubbles: A Clarification](https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.14017)", we mathematically proved the **nonexistence of rational bubbles** in the model of Miao and Wang (2018).

It seems that there is a widespread misunderstanding in the literature. According to our systematic literature search detailed in the paper, there are 74 papers that are mainly about the theory of bubbles and cite Miao and Wang (2018) as a paper on bubbles. Among those 74 papers, 68 cite Miao and Wang (2018) as a *rational bubble* model specifically. As proved in our paper, the model of Miao and Wang (2018) is **not** a rational bubble model. It is an asset pricing model with multiple equilibria, where the high- or low-stock price equilibrium is selected based on agents' self-fulfilling expectations. In both equilibria, the stock price reflects fundamentals. I hope that our paper will help to reach a better and mutual understanding about bubbles, and that the science of bubbles will prosper forever, without ever imploding.