---
title: 'On illegal immigrants'
date: 2025-06-21
permalink: /posts/2025/06/blog-post-21/
tags:
  - Miscellaneous
---

If a person enters my house without my permission, I suppose I have the right to ask the person to leave, and if they refuse, I may force them to do so. By analogy, if a person crosses the border into a country without permission from the government of that country, I suppose the government has the right to ask the person to leave, and if they refuse, they may force them to do so. Therefore, I see no problem that some government cracks down illegal immigration and attempts to deport illegal immigrants (although there may be exceptions on an individual basis, for example children that were taken to the country by their illegal immigrant parents and grew up for quite some time, losing tie to their country of birth). It is just common sense that follows from the fundamental principle of a liberal society that honors property rights. A corollary of this argument is that I do not understand why some people (typically the radical left or whatever they are called) organize protests against the crack down of illegal immigration.

Let me point out that I am an immigrant (of course, legal) to the United States and I am in favor of immigration because it brings competition, diversity, and other values. I would say a large fraction of scientists in the United States are immigrants, and without them, scientific progress will be much slower. Let me also point out that I have nothing personal against illegal immigrants: the lack of legal status is their problem as well as the government's, not mine. In fact, if an illegal immigrant comes to my house and offers to do some chore (like cleaning the yard or working as an Uber driver) at below minimum wage, I would happily take the offer. After thinking this way, perhaps the radical left organizing protests against the crack down of illegal immigration is rational. Maybe they consist of small business owners who would like to hire illegal immigrants at below minimum wage. But then they should protest against the minimum wage, not illegal immigration.

