---
title: 'American Express increased annual fee of Platinum Card to $895'
date: 2025-09-20
permalink: /posts/2025/09/blog-post-20/
tags:
  - credit card
  - personal finance
---

American Express increased the annual fee of the Platinum Card from $695 to $895.

In [this post](https://alexisakira.github.io/posts/2024/12/blog-post-25/) last year, I discussed my love-hate relationship with the American Express Platinum Card. When I opened the account many years ago, I recall that the annual fee was $450. Then it increased to $550 and then to $695. Now it's $895. It has reached a point where I need to reconsider whether it is worth keeping the card. (See also [this opinion](https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/travel/dear-amex-platinum-we-need-to-talk).)

The card offers various credits, but most are things I won't use or are redundant.

- $400 Resy credit ($100 quarterly): Most of the restaurants that I go to anyway (Asian food) are not in Resy. To me, it makes the most sense to use Resy restaurants for business (for which I get reimbursed) and get the credit, but optimizing is a mental burden.
- $600 Hotel credit ($300 semiannually): This is for Fine Hotels + Resorts or Hotel Collection, and you need to stay for two nights. Most hotels are expensive. If I can use it for business trips (for which I get reimbursed), it is worth it, but I won't stay at these hotels for personal trips.
- The American Express Global Lounge Collection: This is a benefit I have valued in the past (to get free food, drinks, and space at airports, especially Centurion Lounges). But now that I have achieved Delta Gold status (I also have One World Emerald status), its value has declined relatively.
- $200 Uber credit: This is useful when I travel. During the off-season, I have to use it for Uber Eats. (Uber Eats is overpriced to begin with, so I usually order one Indian curry for pick up on Uber Eats and then order extra stuff at the restaurant directly.)
- $120 Uber One Credit ($10 monthly): The cost of Uber One is $9.99 per month, so essentially it's free. I have just signed up for this service, so I will see whether it's useful.
- $300 Digital Entertainment Credit ($25 monthly): This is useless. I don't use these kinds of services.
- $200 Airline Fee Credit: I use it for Delta, and in the past, it helped me cover change fees or upgrades. But it's not really necessary.
- $209 CLEAR Plus credit: CLEAR used to be useful for skipping the security line at the airport. But TSA Precheck has improved (with digital ID, etc.), and I no longer see value in CLEAR.
- Hilton Honors Gold Status: You get free breakfast for two people, but I rarely stay at Hilton.
- Marriott Bonvoy Gold Elite Status: I have a different Marriott card, so this is redundant.
- Leaders Club Sterling Status from The Leading Hotels of the World: I have never heard of this hotel chain.
- Fee Credit for Global Entry or TSA PreCheck: This is useful, but I have two other cards that provide the same benefit, so it is redundant. (I can use it for family members, though.)
- $300 Lululemon credit ($75 quarterly): My wife and daughter buy stuff at Lululemon sometimes, so it could be useful.
- $100 Saks Fifth Avenue credit ($50 semiannually): I won't shop at Saks unless there is this credit. I just buy minimal stuff, like underwear, when it's on sale.
- $200 Oura Ring credit: I don't know what this crap is.
- Walmart+ Monthly Membership credit ($12.95 monthly): I don't use it.

I didn't list all the benefits and credits, but the rest are less important. My membership renewal is next May, so I still have time to think about it.