---
title: 'Cost-benefit analysis of Costco Anywhere Visa Card'
date: 2025-12-25
permalink: /posts/2025/12/blog-post-25/
tags:
  - credit card
  - personal finance
---

As the year-end approaches, it is time to perform a cost-benefit analysis of my credit cards. Here I discuss the [Costco Anywhere Visa Card](https://www.costco.com/credit-card.html).

The structure is relatively simple. There is no annual fee, but only Costco members can have this card. (The Costco membership fee is $65 for Gold Star, which gives no benefits, and $130 for Executive, which gives 2% cashback. Therefore, conditional on being a Costco member, if one expects to spend more than \\(65/0.02=3250\\) dollars per year, the Executive membership is better. In what follows, we ignore the membership fee because it is independent of the credit card.) The rewards are
- 5% on gas at Costco,
- 4% on other eligible gas and EV charging,
- 3% on restaurants and eligible travel,
- 2% on Costco purchases, and
- 1% on all other purchases.

In the past, I have blindly used this card for gas (regardless of whether it was at Costco), EV charging, restaurants, Costco, and some travel. This year, I earned the following cashback:
- $1.05 on gas at Costco,
- $8.13 on other eligible gas and EV charging,
- $147.92 on restaurants,
- $172.52 on travel,
- $204.23 on Costco purchases, and
- $6.52 on all other purchases.

Based on this information, we can compute that the average cashback rate was 2.48%. Therefore, it is well worth keeping the card, as the [Fidelity Rewards Visa Signature Card](https://www.fidelity.com/spend-save/preapproval-visa-signature-card) gives 2% cashback on all purchases, which is my opportunity cost.

However, my credit card usage was not optimal for several reasons. First, I shouldn't have spent anything on "all other purchases", which earns only 1%. This is because the definition of categories is sometimes unclear. For instance, I thought bakeries count as dining out (3%), and rideshares count as travel (3%), but that is not the case. For rideshares, I should use the [American Express Blue Cash Preferred Card](https://www.americanexpress.com/us/credit-cards/card/blue-cash-preferred/), as discussed [here](https://alexisakira.github.io/posts/2025/12/blog-post-06/). Furthermore, I found that booking independent hotels sometimes does not trigger the 3% cashback on travel.

Second, 3% cashback on travel is not necessarily a good deal. Booking travel through the travel portals of American Express, Capital One, and Chase (using the corresponding cards) often gives you 5% cashback.

Third, since the 2% cashback rate on the Costco card is the same as with the Fidelity card, but the latter gives cashback every month, whereas the Costco card gives cashback only once a year, using the Fidelity card is better because we can earn more interest.

Therefore, based on my lifestyle, this card is most suitable for gas, EV charging, and dining out.

Although I like this card overall, the two features that I dislike are:
1. The credit card statement does not show how much cashback I earned through each transaction.
1. Cashback is applied only once a year.

In this sense, I prefer American Express because it is clear what we are earning, and we can redeem points or cashback anytime we want.