---
title: 'Everyday Millionaires'
date: 2025-02-06
permalink: /posts/2025/02/blog-post-06/
tags:
  - personal finance
---

During my recent flight, I read [_Everyday Millionaires_](https://www.amazon.com/Everyday-Millionaires-Ordinary-Extraordinary-Wealth_and/dp/0977489523) by Chris Hogan. The same Google Feed article on personal finance that I mentioned in my [earlier post](https://alexisakira.github.io/posts/2025/02/blog-post-02/) also recommended this book, and I borrowed it from the library at the same time as  [_Baby Steps Millionaires_](https://www.amazon.com/Baby-Steps-Millionaires-Extraordinary-Wealth/dp/1942121598) by Dave Ramsey.

Long story short, _Everyday Millionaires_ contains the same information as _Baby Steps Millionaires_, so reading it from a purely intellectual perspective would be redundant. The book basically repeats the baby steps, which are

1. Save $1,000 for a starter emergency fund.
1. Pay off all debt except the mortgage.
1. Save three to six months' expenses in an emergency fund.
1. Save 15% of pre-tax income into retirement accounts by first maxing out the company match in 401(k), then Roth IRA, and then tax-deferred plan, all in a diversified stock mutual fund.
1. Fund a children's college fund through a 529 college savings plan,
1. Pay off the mortgage early.
1. Be generous and give.

In fact, the author, Chris Hogan, was an employee at Dave Ramsey's company, Ramsey Solutions, and worked on the National Study of Millionaires.

However, I really enjoyed reading the book. Here are the positives.

1. The writing style is very entertaining. It's written without using fancy words, and you get the impression that the author is talking to you and coaching you to be successful.
1. There is not much digression with the Bible or Christian values, unlike _Baby Steps Millionaires_.
1. Compared to _Baby Steps Millionaires_, there are more episodes of ordinary people achieving the millionaire status, which are all inspiring.

Next are the negatives.

1. There is no new information relative to _Baby Steps Millionaires_. To be fair, even _Baby Steps Millionaires_ doesn't have much new information (at least conceptually) relative to classics like [_The Richest Man in Babylon_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Richest_Man_in_Babylon).
1. Not only does the book contain no new information, but it repeats the inaccurate statements in _Baby Steps Millionaires_ that I already pointed out in my [earlier post](https://alexisakira.github.io/posts/2025/02/blog-post-02/).

That said, about 90% of what is written in the book is great advice, and I highly recommend reading it, especially for young people who haven't thought much about how to achieve financial independence. I might buy the book for my kids as a birthday present.

After reading the book, I got interested in the author, so I googled. Apparently, after publishing the book, the author had an affair with a coworker at Ramsey Solutions, got fired, and got divorced. We, mortals, all make mistakes. I wish the author all the best in overcoming the adversity.